# Crypto-Analysis

I created this project to help me test my hypothesis on the correlation between certain cryptocurrencies or rather groups of cryptocurrencies on 12 hour intervals to then apply the results to real life trading of crypto perpetual futures contracts. 

First things first, let me clarify some terms that I will be using here: `Primary Token` - the main cryptocurrency in a group aka the cryptocurrency you are trying to derive correlation from, `Secondary Token` - the rest of cryptocrrencies in a group (the once you will be making trades on), `t_0` - the first 12 hours candle on a given day, `t_1` - the second 12 hour candle on a given day. 

In my case I decided to have two groups: `BTC` and `ETH`--Primary Tokens -- simply becasue they are the two main cryptocurrencies in the world, but you could use any other crypto instead. Then my Secondary Tokens for both groups were the tokens that are offered as futures contracts on my exchange. The project provides insights on the correlation between the Primary Token (BTC/ETH) and a Secondary Token's price movements over a 12-hour period. The main objective is to analyze how significant price changes in Primary Token affect the subsequent price movements of a Secondary Token.

The program fetches historical price data using the Binance and Kucoin APIs (I used two just to see the differences, but you could stick to just one). Then it filters days where Primary Token's price changes by more than 1% (delta>0.01) at the close of t_0. For these filtered days, it evaluates whether Secondary Token’s price at the close of t_1 was higher than its price at t_0, or whether Secondary Token’s price at t_1 was lower than its price at t_0 when BTC’s price decreased by more than 1%. The results are presented as success rates for these scenarios.

This project was a great practice and introduciton to algorithmic trading. A few pairs performed pretty well in testing, so the next thing I am going to do i to add some hedging techniques to the strategy (because every trading strategy is better with hedging:)). Then perhaps move over to Trading View and put a few technical indicators on top to filter it out even more and then lastly write a code in Pine Script that will notify me whenever the conditions are triggered.
